---
title: "Chapter 2-1"
output: 
  html_document: 
    keep_md: yes
---

1. For each of parts (a) through (d), indicate whether we would generally
expect the performance of a flexible statistical learning method to be
better or worse than an inflexible method. Justify your answer.

(a) The sample size n is extremely large, and the number of predictors
p is small.

Flexible - Since there are many samples, flexible would allow you to predict more closely 

(b) The number of predictors p is extremely large, and the number
of observations n is small.

Inflexible - With only a few observations, a flexible model runs the risk of overfitting 

(c) The relationship between the predictors and response is highly
non-linear.

Flexible - Because non-linear?

(d) The variance of the error terms, i.e. σ2 = Var(E), is extremely
high.

Inflexible - A flexible model would try to fit closely to Var(E)

3. (SKIPPED) We now revisit the bias-variance decomposition.  
(a) Provide a sketch of typical (squared) bias, variance, training error,
test error, and Bayes (or irreducible) error curves, on a single
plot, as we go from less flexible statistical learning methods
towards more flexible approaches. The x-axis should represent
the amount of flexibility in the method, and the y-axis should
represent the values for each curve. There should be five curves.
Make sure to label each one.

(b) Explain why each of the five curves has the shape displayed in
part (a).

4. You will now think of some real-life applications for statistical learning.
(a) Describe three real-life applications in which classification might
be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the
goal of each application inference or prediction? Explain your
answer.

Describing functional classes of genes  
Classifying / factorizing phenotypes based on quanitative traits

(b) Describe three real-life applications in which regression might
be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the
goal of each application inference or prediction? Explain your
answer.

Predicting growth of a tree

(c) Describe three real-life applications in which cluster analysis
might be useful.  

Grouping sets of genes with similar expression patterns  
Determining what sickness symptoms are similar vs unique

6. Describe the differences between a parametric and a non-parametric
statistical learning approach. What are the advantages of a parametric
approach to regression or classification (as opposed to a nonparametric
approach)? What are its disadvantages?

Parametric approaches assume that the data can be modeled by some polynomial. Non-parametric doesn't assume anything about the shape of the data. Parametric models are easier to interpret, but they are more subject to being "wrong" and/or overfitting. Non-parametric models may get closer to the truth, but they are difficult to interpret. 
